Discussion 3: Applying Sociological Concepts to the Real World

Your task in this discussion board is to display your critical thinking skills by "applying" some of the sociological concepts you learned in chapter three to contemporary society (do not just describe concepts). To accomplish this you must find a YouTube clip or website on the internet (be sure to include the link at the beginning of your main post) and apply at least two concepts (you can use more if you like) from the chapter to the content of your selected clip/website in your main post.

****Very Important Special Note: When selecting your YouTube clip or website for this discussion board be sure to focus on a culture "OUTSIDE" of the United States of America. Within you main post you need to compare the attitudes, behaviors, and beliefs of your selected culture to the dominant cultural view within the United States of America. There will be a formative assessment of your critical thinking skills based on the content of this main post. No need for any extra stress about this assessment, it has absolutely no impact on your over-all grade.****

When discussing these concepts you must cite the Macionis text twice in proper ASA format to illustrate where you found your information. Additionally, you must respond to one classmate's main post in an academic manner. In your response post you must cite the Macionis text one time in proper ASA format. Hence, I should see a total of three in-text citations in your posts (two in the main post and one in your response). The length of your main post should be equal to one page in a word document (no longer than two pages). When constructing your one page main post do not use more than two paragraphs. Your response post should be 1/2 of a page (no longer than one page). To ensure your length is adequate, I suggest writing your posts in a word document, then copy/paste them into D2L. Please use Times New Roman 12-point font, and double space your writing. You will mainly be graded on how you apply the chapter's concepts to your website, but you will also be graded on length, grammar, flow, spelling, and capitalization (also on whether you satisfy posted due dates in the schedule). Please check the schedule for exact due dates. Throughout the semester all main posts are due by 11:59 PM on Friday nights. While your response post is always due by 11:59 PM on Saturday nights. When beginning your thread be sure to label it "MAIN POST". The first item I should see on your main post is the link to your website, be sure to post this prior to any writing.

Important Note For All Academic Discussion Boards

Please refrain from using clips from Youtube that are entitled "Crash Course Sociology". These clips simulate a lecture; hence, when these clips are used by a student they generally "describe" concepts instead of "applying" concepts. Need to focus on a specific topic from a real-world situation and "apply" concepts from the current chapter.

Additionally, do not use content from another Sociology textbook for the same reason as above. Do not use content from encyclopedias either. Do not use scholarly/academic articles. Furthermore, be sure the source you utilize is free to all, be sure it does not require a subscription (be careful with the New York Times, the New Yorker, and the Washington Post).

Hints On Possible Concepts to Cover From This Chapter:

Material culture; nonmaterial culture; symbols; language; Sapir-Whorf thesis; values; beliefs; norms; mores; folkways; ideal and real culture; subculture; multiculturalism; counterculture; eurocentrism; ethnocentrism; cultural lag; and the theories of culture.

Rubric For Discussion Boards

Task / Points
Provided Source Link - 4
3 citations from course text with proper ASA formatting - 6
Provided academic response to classmate - 5
Properly applied sociological concepts throughout both posts - 5
Followed directions, spelling, grammar, flow, and capitalization - 5
Total - 25

Special Note: Unless an extension has been granted, all late work will be subject to a 30% deduction. (Be sure to submit all work on time!)
