SOC 1001 - Introduction to Sociology I
Discussion 2 (Chapter 1/Main Post Due by 11:59 PM on Friday, September 4 and Response Post Due by 11:59 PM on Saturday, September 5)

Discussion 2: Applying Sociological Concepts to the Real World

Your task in this discussion board is to display your critical thinking skills by "applying" some of the sociological concepts you learned in chapter one to contemporary society (do not just describe concepts). To accomplish this you must find a Youtube clip or website/article on the internet (be sure to include the link at the beginning of your main post) and apply at least two concepts (you can use more if you like) from the chapter to the content of your selected clip/website in your main post. When discussing these concepts you must cite the Macionis text twice in proper ASA format to illustrate where you found your information. Additionally, you must respond to one classmate's main post in an academic manner. In your response post you must cite the Macionis text one time in proper ASA format. Hence, I should see a total of three in-text citations in your posts (two in the main post and one in your response). The length of your main post should be equal to one page in a word document (no longer than two pages). When constructing your one page main post do not use more than two paragraphs. Your response post should be ½ of a page (no longer than one page). To ensure your length is adequate, I suggest writing your posts in a word document, then copy/paste them into D2L. Please use Times New Roman 12-point font, and double space your writing. You will mainly be graded on how you apply the chapter's concepts to your website, but you will also be graded on length, grammar, flow, spelling, and capitalization (also on whether you satisfy posted due dates in the schedule). Please check the schedule for exact due dates. Throughout the semester all main posts are due by 11:59 PM on Friday nights. While your response post is always due by 11:59 PM on Saturday nights. When beginning your thread be sure to label it "MAIN POST". The first item I should see on your main post is the link to your website, be sure to post this prior to any writing.

Important Information:

Since this is your first attempt I will give an example of what you should be trying to accomplish. You will first need to find a clip/website/article that focuses on some type of social issue or problem. Let us pretend you found a good clip that discusses growing rates of homelessness in the United States. What next? You need to analyze the content of this clip using sociological concepts from Chapter One. For example, you can analyze homelessness through the Social-Conflict Theory approach, or you can use the Structural-Functional approach and discuss how homelessness is related to manifest and latent functions. You could also decide to take a micro-level approach and apply Symbolic Interactionism. If you want to focus on race you could use the Race-Conflict Theory. Finally, you can use Mills and the sociological imagination. In this case you could focus on "personal troubles" and "public issues" from the extra reading. (Note: you can always use information from any extra reading I assign). These are only a few examples of what you could use from the text to analyze your clip/website, you can choose anything you desire from the chapter as long as you cite the information in proper ASA format. This is exactly what each discussion board will require. If you are not sure what to focus on in each chapter I suggest you read the "Learning Outcomes" at the beginning of each chapter, which provides what we will be focusing on in each chapter. For this first academic discussion board you have two weeks to complete this task, the rest you only have a week. If you are confused, or need help, be sure to e-mail me as soon as possible. Once you get the formatting down these discussion boards should not be too difficult.

Important Note For All Academic Discussion Boards

Please refrain from using clips from Youtube that are entitled "Crash Course Sociology". These clips simulate a lecture; hence, when these clips are used by a student they generally "describe" concepts instead of "applying" concepts. Need to focus on a specific topic from a real-world situation and "apply" concepts from the current chapter.

Additionally, do not use content from another Sociology textbook for the same reason as above. Do not use content from encyclopedias either. Do not use lengthy scholarly/academic articles. Furthermore, be sure the source you utilize is free to all, be sure it does not require a subscription (be careful with the New York Times, the New Yorker, and the Washington Post).

Rubric For Discussion Boards

Task / Points
Provided Website - 4
3 citations from course text with proper ASA formatting - 6
Provided academic response to classmate - 5
Properly applied sociological concepts throughout both posts - 5
Followed directions, spelling, grammar, flow, and capitalization - 5
Total - 25

Special Note: Unless an extension has been granted, all late work will be subject to a 30% deduction. (Be sure to submit all work on time!)
