Choose one (1) prompt below.
Minimum paper length: 1.5 pages (you may exceed this length). Please format per the following APA guidelines: separate title page, double spaced, and 12 point font (Times New Roman or Arial). Do not include a multi-line header on first page (i.e., first page of actual commentary). 
Citations/references are not required for experiential/opinion-based paper; if citations/references are used, they should be formatted per APA standards.
PROMPT 1:
C. Wright Mills’ sociological imagination is the process of linking individual experience with the larger social systems/society and one’s place in history. According to this perspective, generations of people who subsist on welfare and other government programs do so because societal constraints create social injustices and inequalities that disproportionately burden certain historically disadvantaged groups via prejudice and discrimination. For example, poor, minority, inner city residents often lack basic essentials of adequate nutrition, shelter, health care, transportation, employment opportunities, etc. For this reason, this group of people has to rely on government subsidies/programs such as welfare, food stamps, WIC, Section 8 housing, etc. to survive. The counter to this perspective is that people on welfare/government programs are lazy/shiftless and don’t want to put in a decent day’s work.
Question: What are your thoughts/opinions about either/both perspective(s). Give an example of a situation/instance that can be explained using the sociological imagination as well as use of stereotypes/myths concocted by people in society. You may use your own experiences or the experiences of someone you know.
PROMPT 2:
Studies demonstrate that cell phone use, especially texting, is a distraction on the road and in the classroom. On the road, listening to music/audio books was not as strongly correlated with accident risk as cell phone use. In the classroom, texting reduces attention which, in turn, reduces academic performance.
Answer any question below. You may use more than one (1).
Question 1: Do/have you used a cell phone in class? Do you think it significantly reduced your ability to pay attention to the point it hindered your performance on assignments/exams? Has someone else in class using a cell phone distracted you/your ability to pay attention? What do you think faculty/school policy should be regarding cell phone use in class?
Question 2: Do you think previous generations who grew up without a cell phone are particularly critical of Millennial/Gen Z internet/cell phone use? That is, do you think Baby Boomers and/or Gen X don't understand the importance of this technology to newer generations and, therefore, don't truly understand why it's difficult to "just delete your social media accounts" or "just put the phone away for a few days"?
Question 3: What are your thoughts on TikTok? Should it be banned in the US? Why or why not?


Due on Nov 13, 2026 11:59 PM
Available on Aug 24, 2026 12:01 AM. Access restricted before availability starts.
Available until Nov 13, 2026 11:59 PM. Access restricted after availability ends.
