hoose one (1) prompt below.
Minimum paper length: 1.5 pages (you may exceed this length). Please format per the following APA guidelines: separate title page, double spaced, and 12 point font (Times New Roman or Arial). Do not include a multi-line header on first page (i.e., first page of actual commentary). 
Citations/references are not required for experiential/opinion-based paper; if citations/references are used, they should be formatted per APA standards.
PROMPT 1:
Intersectionality is the overlap/interaction of multiple social identities that contribute to systemic oppression or opportunity experienced by an individual. Which identity/identities (race/ethnicity, sex/gender, sexual orientation/sexuality, age, income, education, citizenship status, disability status, etc.) hold greater weight/value in society in terms of accessing resources (education, employment, health care, secure/safe housing, etc.)? That is, what identity/identities eclipse(s) others to overcome potential discrimination? Or, conversely, which identity/identities serve(s) as barriers to mainstream resources? (You can use yourself or someone you know to discuss this DQ or you can write about it in more general terms.)

See link to sheet below to help you think about this topic:
Intersectionality Sheet



PROMPT 2:
Think about someone you know who has been in trouble/is considered deviant or a situation deemed as deviant/unconventional. (You can use yourself as an example. You may also use a reality television show or a news program.) First, using our broad definition of deviance as a guide, discuss the ways in which this person/situation/show may be interpreted differently depending on who is viewing the person/situation/show. That is, discuss the example in terms of the relativity of deviance: it is not the act itself that makes it deviant, it is the reaction by members of society that make it deviant so that a behavior might be deviant in one society (marriage to girls less than 18 years old) but not in another (arranged marriages between adult men and young girls).

PROMPT 3: 
Preface: If you choose this prompt again, ensure the topic is different from Paper #1.
You may write about any topic included on our syllabus, from Economy to Politics to Medicine/Health to the Criminal Justice System to Population/Environment.  You may also write about a topic not included on the syllabus. The sky's the limit for how you discuss/comment on your select topic as long as it's sociological in nature. 
For example, you could discuss your thoughts on any of the links included under Content (e.g., rioting after sports team's victory; medical slang; Genie Wiley, etc.). Or, you could write about your experiences with our economy or government. 


 


Due on Oct 9, 2026 11:59 PM
Available on Aug 24, 2026 12:01 AM. Access restricted before availability starts.
Available until Oct 9, 2026 11:59 PM. Access restricted after availability ends.
