Studied are conducted to determine whether those bullied in schools continued to show the effects of being bullied after they entered college. Research indicates that there is no single causal factor for a bully to select one or many victims, but the individuals who are already struggling socially to fit in and who appear awkward in various social settings are much more vulnerable to bullying. Some undergraduate students report that those who are bullied in elementary and middle school continue to be victimized (called names, excluded from class activities, physically abused, etc.) in high school and even after secondary school. Whether a consequence of being bullied in high school, in junior high school, or in college, the victims feel alone and isolated. They find it hard to make friends, and they feel that no one will listen to them while in college. Victims also reported that they do not know how to fight back when individuals say hurtful things to them; they report this to a much greater degree than those not bullied.
Choose 1 or more questions to answer this prompt.

 Question #1: Using your own experiences (yourself, your friends, family, co-workers, etc.), discuss this article. Do you agree/disagree with some of the results/findings? Have you or your friends/acquaintances/family members observed/experienced bullying? Explain.

Question #2: Do you think current “zero/no tolerance” school policies regarding bullying are effective? Do you think these policies are an overreaction (i.e., bullying is simply a rite of passage in childhood and it is not as serious as it is made out to be) or do you believe that these policies are right on the mark (i.e., bullying is a very serious social problem that can permanently damage the victim)? Explain your answers.

Question #3: Do you think cyber bullying (the use of the internet, especially social networking sites, to harm other people, in a deliberate, repeated, and hostile manner) is more or less serious than physical bullying (hit, slap, kick, push, punch, etc.)? Explain.
