SOC 2015 - Contemporary Social Problems
Paper #1 (Critical Thinking Paper)

In order to submit 3 of the 4 critical thinking papers, you must submit Paper #1 and/or Paper #2 within that paper's availability period.  Begin your papers with a premise/thesis statement that directly introduces the topic, which is often a paraphrased writing prompt.  In the body of your paper, you are not required to include in-text citations of the chapter's notes; however, if you paraphrase or quote from the textbook, or any other source, including AI-generated content, proper citation is required.  (Refer to the APA Guide in Class Resources.)  Your papers should be in font size 12, 1.5 or 2.0-spaced, no longer than two pages, and proofread for college-level writing.  For help, refer to FAQ: Improving Coursework, the Aims Online Writing Lab, and meet with a writing tutor.

Americans often assume that media reports are unbiased and "free" of economic and political agendas, yet the dissemination of information and public opinion, in general, are shaped by what stories are told, how they are told, and the experiences of oppressed groups can be distorted by being presented in limited, stereotyped ways.  In addition, 'alternative' perspectives are often silenced, skewed negatively, or only partially reported.

Find a conflicting report of a current social issue or event- immigration reform, 'fake' news, gun control legislation, etc.- between two different news sources (Fox vs. CNN, NBC vs. BBC vs. Al Jazeera, etc.).

1.  In the introductory paragraph, briefly explain the social issue, and include the titles, dates of publication, and authors (if applicable) of the two sources.

2.  In the body of your paper, explain the opposing positions presented in the two sources, and how at least one of the reports creates an interpretation of the issue that is skewed, only partially accurate, or limited, perhaps due to the omission of pertinent information.  (For help, refer to Critical Thinking & Its Application.)  2a.  Elaborate sociologically how this misleading, biased report reflects power and could serve the social, economic, or political agenda of a particular group (i.e., the wealthy, Republicans, Democrats, liberals, conservatives, the Power Elite).

To identify areas of improvement before submitting the final draft of your CT papers (and to have a solid indication of the grade you will earn), assess it for each criteria of the Critical Thinking Paper Rubric in the Course Information Module Class Resources.  Then submit the paper as a Word document via the assignment drop box within its availability period.  To do so: 1) Scroll down the page to 'Add a File', locate your file (i.e., the Word document saved on your computer), select 'Upload', then the document, and 'Open.'  2) Click 'Add' & 'Submit Assignment'.  If you have successfully uploaded and submitted an assignment, you will see the date and time of submission.
