SOC 2015 - Contemporary Social Problems
Global Stratification Blog

Go to the World Bank http://data.worldbank.org/country, https://data.oecd.org, or another useful website and research TWO countries of your choosing; it is easier to compare two countries with different levels of socio-economic development (i.e., a high- and low-income country, middle- and low-income country, etc.).  Based on your research, the chapter's content, etc., answer these questions on your Blog:

1) Identify the two countries as a high, middle, or low-income country. 1 pt.

2) For both countries, report and compare 2-3 specific cultural, social and/or economic variables (i.e., level of education, female literacy rate, birth rate, population by age, median age, infant mortality rate, etc.).  Cite your source(s).   3-4 pts.

3) What can you conclude about the relationship between a country's level of development- high, middle, or low income- and access to healthcare, education, and/or overall quality of life?  1-2 pts.

4)  Explain one of the theories of global inequality- Modernization, Dependency, or World Economy Theory, then a) apply the 'principles' of that theory to explain the patterns or issues indicative of one of the country's level of development.  For help, refer to the Chapter Notes, Modernization and Dependency Theories, and World Systems Theory.  4 pts.

This participation exercise is to be posted on your Blog and number your answers #1-4. Go to "Classlist", select 'Blog' from the drop-down menu next to your name, "Add Entry", and label your entry "Global Stratification Research".  Answer the questions in complete sentences, and then "Save" to post your entry.   Lastly, under blog settings, select "Make all Entries Public", "Allow Comments" and "Receive Email When Comments Are Added".

***  Proofread for college-level writing.  (I find it easier to proofread in Word, and then paste it into Aims Online.)  For help, refer to the Aims Online Writing Lab and FAQ Improving Coursework.
